# Detecting-Ransomware-using-Machine-Learning-Models

Ransomware is a type of sophisticated virus that uses encryption to prohibit users from accessing their data unless a ransom is paid to the attacker. The threat presented by ransomware is quite severe, with new varieties and families being discovered on the internet and dark web on a regular basis. The rise in ransomware is also accompanied by an increase in the usage of artificial intelligence. Machine learning and deep learning techniques to detecting ransomware are attracting a lot of attention since machine learning and deep learning can identify zero-day threats. Traditional machine learning algorithms are skewed toward the more commonly occurring class categories, failing to capture the ransomware's overall pattern or structure. They have a tendency to overfit to the data presented, resulting in poor performance on real-world data examples with uncertain class category labels. As a result, we conclude that typical machine learning techniques are unsuitable for such a significant data security challenge. Deep Neural Networks have been shown to function effectively with time series data, as well as multi-class classification and clustering issues, and they capture varying levels of granularity of the underlying structure in the data set at various layers of the model architecture.

Deep learning and machine learning have an impact on every part of life. Because of their decision-making capabilities, these technologies have a wide range of applications in every discipline. Because of the employment of these possible technologies, advanced assaults and threat detection got easier in less time. Deep learning is the most effective method for detecting the patterns of a working system. It has a wide range of applications because to its pattern recognition capabilities. Machine learning and deep learning are burgeoning technologies that are widely employed in advanced cybersecurity research. These technologies should also be applied to the detection of ransomware. In terms of pattern recognition, both systems were useful. Machine learning and deep learning are used to detect a variety of viruses and ransomware.
